# Information-Retrieval
A project in Information Retrieval using Cystic Fibrosis collection (1209 docs, 20 queries)

During the preparation of this work two information retrieval models were implemented, the Vector Space Model and colBert. The Vector Space Model creates vectors in both the collection of docs and the queries for which it will search for the relevant files. These vectors are created from their terms after being assigned the appropriate weights and have the following form: D=(ti, wdi; tj, wdj; tp, wdp;) for docs and Q=(qa , wqa; qb, wqb; ... ;qr, wqr) for queries. Therefore VSM is a system that calculates the cosine of the angle formed by the query and docs vectors. It returns a ranking of the vectors that show the smallest angle and therefore converge closer to the query vector. In this project we implemented two versions of the Vector Space Model one is the Best fully weighted system tfcnfx and the other is the Best weighted probabilistic weight nxxbpx. These methods were chosen because they are more efficient due to their flexibility in the format of queries (small or large , tolerant of smoother reasoning) since they use length normalization on documents and enhanced query weighting on queries. The other model we used is colBert, which is pre-trained. Bert is a neural network model that takes as input vectors derived from text tokens and outputs a sequence of related embeddings. colBert is a model that uses Bert as its base to encode the query and document and uses an inexpensive interaction step to model their similarities.
